---
name: '3.1'
subtitle: Establish challenging learning goals
description: #
product_group: standard-3
image:
---
Establishing clear and achievable learning goals encourages students to be active participants in their own learning. It empowers them to become independent learners and motivates them

>“A growing body of research indicates that when students are working on goals they themselves have set, they are more motivated and efficient, and they achieve more than they do when working on goals that have been set by the teacher” _(Hom and Murphy, 1983 p. 104)_

Also in accordance with Carol Dweck's theories on mindset and learning.

In Pelangi school (where I have completed the majority of my placement) the students have circle time at the beginning of everyday. In this time they come together as a group, setting their intentions for learning and voicing their thoughts and hopes for the  upcoming lessons.   

At the beginning of a new body of work students are encouraged  in groups to set their own personal goals.

When working in groups they are encouraged to participate,listen actively and to appreciate  others ideas.

During my time at Pelangi I conducted a lesson on personal values, and got the children to discuss what they were and which of them they would like to work on. We came up with ‘virtues’ such as kindess, tolerance, patience forgiveness and honesty. They then chose one which resonated with them and discussed with their peers practical goals on how they might work on this. The premise on this lesson was to set goals for ourselves to become better as individuals.

Add pic IMG_0877.JPG
