---
name: '3.5'
subtitle: Use effective classroom communication
description: #
product_group: standard-3
image: /assets/p/products/standard-3/5/IMG_0821.jpg
---
Use effective verbal and nonverbal communication strategies to support student understanding, participation, engagement and achievement.

There are many ways in which I use verbal and nonverbal strategies to support my students understanding engagement and achievement

## Verbal strategies.

After scaffolding a new idea I ask concept checking questions to make sure my students have understood the task at hand.

I praise consistent effort despite the inevitable struggle at times for all students.
I encourage discussion amongst my students and active listening in participation

## Non verbal.

I get students attention through clapping or call and response songs.
Sometimes I stop students disruptive behavior by stopping all together in silence until they recognize that they need to pay attention.

In a similar way I use a softer volume with my voice in order to call in students attention.
I use open hand gestures and encourage students to put up their hands if they want to speak in a discussion.

I use a points system  on the board to reward good behavior and similarly to make students aware of disruptive behavior.

I am aware of my body language, giving instructions with a friendly facial gesture, making eye contact with my students and being aware not to fold my arms closing my body off to the students.

Similarly I monitor the body language of my students which help to give me an insight in what is going on for them.

I ask my students to do the five L’s.

Add video on 5 L’s (?)
