---
name: '1.5'
subtitle: Differentiate teaching to meet the specific learning needs of students across the full range of abilities
description: #
product_group: standard-1
image: /assets/p/products/standard-1/5/Kids-play-Bambu-jam-File_000-3.jpg
---
Bloom developed ways of organizing expertise using a multi-tiered scale to differentiate the level of expertise needed to achieve a measurable student outcome. This concept allows for selection of appropriate assessment techniques.  

There are three taxonomies which differ according to the learning outcome sought for each lesson.

These are knowledge, skills or effective (values, interests and attitudes goals). It then levels each of these areas according to complexity.

Similarly when teaching music orchestration and music literacy to my students I employ the use of the Bamba Jam - A  simple tone percussion instrument and a simplified form of read notation - with my fourth grade music class within a matter of minutes I was able to help them to collaborate, playing complex classical compositions, listening to each other and working as a group.  

The beauty of the Bamba Jam is that it creates an environment for the whole class to collaborate working at their own specific musical part assigned (at varying levels of complexity) towards a common goal.

I was able to give the more complex reading parts to those with a firmer grasp of the concepts involved and simpler parts to those that were more challenged by the activity and yet they were all able to work together on the one piece of music.

The activity also involves appointing a leader. It’s a wonderful chance to give less confident students a role in leading others (conducting the group) so that they might gain more confidence.
