---
name: '6.2'
subtitle: Engage in professional learning and improve practice
description: #
product_group: standard-6
image: /assets/p/products/standard-6/4/topped-up-symposium.jpg
---
Understand the relevant and appropriate sources of professional learning for teachers.

During the course of my degree in teaching I have attended two Sydney Symphony Symposiums - ToppED Up which is a course targeted to general primary school teachers  within a two day conference format.

The symposium succeeded in updating  and innovating  my knowledge on how to teach music to primary school children in a dynamic and interesting way. It also gave me an insight into how to link what we had learned with curriculum set outcomes. It was also a chance to share ideas with a broad range of teachers from around the country.

In both courses there was also a great deal of innovation around using technology to achieve music curriculum outcomes. I learned a great deal from these professional learning days and I was able to integrate what I had learned in my classes with confidence and enthusiasm.

As a teacher, it is of utmost importance to keep informed on the subject areas that I teach and to keep motivated by learning and sharing ideas in such professional environments and upscaling courses.

One of the most important areas in which to remain up to date is  in using ICU and how to integrate technology into lessons. As this is a subject area that is constantly changing, it is one which teachers need to constantly update their knowledge on.

Ways in which I plan to continue my professional learning include:

- Discussing my teaching and learning with peers.
- Attending school meetings and staff development days
- Attending accredited courses
- Mentoring and coaching
- Subscribing to educational journals and websites.
- Maintain an inquisitive attitude with the mindset that learning is a lifelong pursuit.
